---
layout: "post"
---
A lot has happened during this week, both in school and personal life. I have had an interview for a Sys Admin position at a medium sized data center in Downtown, LA. The interviewer blasted me with all kinds of Linux, networking, and cloud related questios and surprisingly, I was able to answer them all. Everything went well and I was told that there will be a second interview. In the meantime I should look into some of the technologies they use on a daily basis. Those are the usualy Active Directory, HyperV, VMWare that I am familiar with. However, there is one application which was new to me and can apply to my current project. It is called <a href="https://www.zabbix.com/">Zabbix</a> and it is an advanced, open source, enterprise-level monitoring tool. It covers physical web servers, cloud servers, networks, applications, and many other web based solutions. It is very versatile and customizable, with many modules and features.  

Zabbix requires a full LAMP stack as it needs a server to preform its operations, a MySQL database to store targets and some data, and PHP for its web client. A great thing is that most of the setup is done through the web portal and not command line. This can be useful for those not comfortable with CLI. The next step is to install a Zabbix agent on the host machine/s. Every target needs to have the Zabbix agent package installed on it to be monitored by the Zabbix server. Next is to add the targets' IP addresses to the Zabbix server. This can be done manually or by using network device discovery. Zabbix will comb through every device on the network and will let you know which ones are available to be monitored. 

After the basic infrastructure is built, there is a lot of customization that can be done. User/group permissions, monitoring templates, visualization(graphs, charts, etc), email/phone notifications, and many other things. This looks like a great tool and I will look into it more. Possibly install it on our current webserver for practice and self-learning. 
